# Islandora ISLE Interest Group Agenda
### Thursday, September 9th, 2020, [3-4pm EDT](http://www.thetimezoneconverter.com/?t=1%20pm&tz=Toronto&)

### Join Us!
* Zoom Link: https://us02web.zoom.us/j/82497957366

### Conveners
* Noah Smith (Born-Digital)
* Gavin Morris (Born-Digital)
* Danny Lamb (Islandora Foundation)
* Chair: Gavin Morris (Born-Digital)
* Note-taker: David Keiser-Clark (Williams)

### Working Documents

* [Old Agenda](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1QZH-JFfroIA8NUFJu2NDwbmKV6ygCY7SjW001g8FeOU/edit#heading=h.7830nr7tkzrn)

* [ISLE 7](https://github.com/Islandora-Collaboration-Group/ISLE)
* Don Richards mentions he uses this utility tool for his AWS installation
  * [https://github.com/jesseduffield/lazydocker](https://github.com/jesseduffield/lazydocker)

* ISLE 8
  * [isle-dc](https://github.com/Islandora-Devops/isle-dc)
  * [isle-buildkit](https://github.com/Islandora-Devops/isle-buildkit)

* ISLE issues & features are also discussed on the weekly [Islandora 8 Calls](https://github.com/Islandora/documentation/wiki/2020)

---

## Agenda

### Attending

* Melissa Anez (IF)
* Gavin Morris (Born-Digital)
* Jeffery Antoniuk (CWRC)
* Yamil Suares (Berklee College)
* David Keiser-Clark (Williams)
* Don Richards (UTK)
* Noah Smith (Born-Digital)
* Francesca Baird (Wesleyan.edu)
* Mark Sandford (Colgate)
* Mihaela Ilovan (CWRC)
* Jeremy Ferris (Providence Public LIbrary)
* Cary Gordon (Cherry Hill Company)
* Hertzel Armengol (Born-Digital)
* Alan Stanley (UPEI)

### Announcements

*   Want a recurring calendar invite to this meeting? Request it from: [community@islandora.ca](mailto:community@islandora.ca)
*   Fedora User Group Meeting
*   [Maintenance-Mindset](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1IxBKQ_sp6bMK4oZxYdImGeIPEuX-qkzKFW57pzTCG7s/edit#): ISLE Release Parties (an ICG Incubator idea) (David)
    *   Hold scheduled release parties for ISLE releases (4 hour open Zoom session?)
    *   Folks show up, share the process, help troubleshoot, stay up to date
    *   Builds community, informal skill share opportunity
    *   [ISLE Release Party](https://groups.google.com/g/islandora/c/WfaKCDaqVis)
        * **When:** Sept 22, 11:00 AM to 3:00 PM EDT
        * **Where:** [https://us02web.zoom.us/j/81265328083](https://us02web.zoom.us/j/81265328083)
        * ISLE Release 1.5.2 will be released on September 21 by Gavin
        * Join us anytime on Sept. 22 (between 11am-3pm EDT) for our first ISLE 7 Release Party! This informal Zoom drop in session offers a supportive and shared learning environment where you can ask questions as you install the newest version of ISLE. This pilot will help determine if offering a regularly scheduled ISLE Release Party would be beneficial for our community to update together while creating a practice of maintenance and accountability in a supportive environment. (Future release parties will include ISLE 8, too.)


### ISLE 7

*   Next ISLE 7 release: 1.5.2 on Sept 21.
  * Security updates to images and minor version upgrades for various components.
*   This will include changing the master branch to main. Gavin will create a quick meeting between Gavin, Mark S, and David KC to plan how to accomplish this before the next release.
*   Commitment to upgrading ISLE for 2021 (and 2022 if needed by community) for any serious ISLE container or security updates, expecting monthly or bi-monthly releases. When approaching 2022, Born-Digital will determine updates for ISLE 7 based on if community is still using it for Islandora 7, or if need has evaporated due to migration to ISLE 8/ Islandora 8
*   Upgrade Trafaek container at a future date.
    *   Gavin does not expect to have to do major software upgrades to ISLE7 after this one, more focus on ISLE8. There will be security updates.
* [ISLE](https://github.com/Islandora-Collaboration-Group/ISLE/issues)
* [isle-dc](https://github.com/Islandora-Devops/isle-dc/issues)
* [isle-buildkit](https://github.com/Islandora-Devops/isle-buildkit/issues)
* [islandora](https://github.com/Islandora/documentation/issues)

### ISLE 8

*   Danny has one fix remaining to make ISLE 8 work with HTTPS
    *   [https://doodle.com/poll/hrc92uxtygydey7b](https://doodle.com/poll/hrc92uxtygydey7b) 
*   Goal is then to create a solid ISLE 8 Release (woohoo!!)
*   Github issue queue now includes issues relating to ISLE 8 name
*   ISLE tag should be added to Islandora 8 github
*   ISLE can help grow the pool of committers and documenters; this is a good way to attract devops people and invite them in.
    *   “If you’re engaged in ISLE, that’s a path into the committer pool”
*   Outreach re: expected datelines + roadmap
*   How to best include community re: how to solve problems with ISLE?
*   How to align the community with helping develop/launch/test/improve/iterate ISLE 8 as a production-ready system?
*   Interest in using Kubernetes with ISLE 8
*   Interest in looking at a monitoring/logging tool for ISLE 8 (alternative to TICK, such as [Prometheus](https://prometheus.io/) or [Grafana](https://grafana.com/))
*   Discussing another ISLE 8 survey either before or after the ISLE 8 Release
*   **Danny Lamb thinks it is time to create an ISLE 8 Sprint to get it to the next level. **There is a survey going out shortly from Islandora, and he’ll plan to insert ISLE 8 as an upcoming Sprint.

### Open Discussion

*   Jeffrey Rubin’s team  is installing ISLE at Tulane University. Hoping his developer will attend the ISLE Release Party on Sept 22. 
*   Alan Stanley has just installed ISLE 7 on a major upgrade at the Warburg Institute.  We had some odd issues with certificates, so we are not using Trafik.  There are some internal routings that have to be changed so the various bits know where everything else is, but it all works.
*   Yamil Suarez is interested in getting a solid ISLE 7 installation. Trying to figure out how to best move forwards in a cost effective way
*   Melissa Anex is really excited about the ISLE Release Party and hopes we can apply that to future ISLE 8 releases.
*   David Keiser-Clark is also really excited about the ISLE Release Party and hopes that it can be as productive for us as similar drop in sessions have been for faculty at our college

## Next Meeting

* October 14th, 2020
