## August 29, 2018 ISLE Meeting

### 3:00pm EST | Zoom: https://columbiauniversity.zoom.us/j/836960289

### Attending
* Carolyn Moritz (Vassar College) | _taking notes_ 
* Mark Sandford (Colgate University)
* Benjamin Rosner (Barnard College)
* Francesca Livermore (Wesleyan University)
* David Keiser-Clark (Williams College)
* Sarah Goldstein (3C)

### Agenda

* **Follow-up from last meeting**
    * Internal: Islandora Newsletter Updates for adding new updates to next Islandora Newsletter
    * Correction from last meeting’s notes:
        * _Gavin question for Ben: Working out multi-environment documentation?_
        * _Yes, quick-start guide being worked on by David & Carolyn_
        * Correction: David is working on multi-env doc; Carolyn is helping with general ISLE quick-start guide
    * JIRA: Received notice that DuraSpace cannot give us project space
        * Options discussed on #isle-maintainers:
            * 1. Stick with GH Issues (as CLAW is doing)
            * 2. Find non-DuraSpace Atlassian instance (institution-dependent)
            * 3. Other FOSS project management alternative
        * So far consensus seems to be Option 1
        * David has also updated Maintainers and Islandora4All documentation in light of JIRA update
* **[ISLE v1.1 Release Notes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/16cSt2vC2QS_Wi_tlb9WqGZ8sW257OofnhTIxcZcIlKo/edit?usp=sharing)**
    * Docs team: Where will Release Notes live? (create URL for one location, which then lists all the releases in chronological order)
This can be added as a sub-section of the documentation easily enough.
Github has a release notes feature, but it appears to be tied to Github, meaning if the repo moved, the release notes would be lost.
    * isle-imageservices
Difficult time getting Cantaloupe up and running as a standalone; decided to leave for after v1.1 release
Adore-Djatoka is working and entire image is slimmed down; we’ll leave a-dj for now and deprecate later
    * ACME documentation
LetsEncrypt has page on how to get certs, we can set up template so people have starting point
Gavin: Would it make sense to make a punchlist for testers to test?
Yes! 
    * .env file needs some fleshing out, plays important part of stack now (thought not completely integrated with conf.d yet, which will add .env to containers) v1.3 fast-track?
    * Multi-environment
        * Dev, stage, prod
        * One ingress network is linked out to all three
        * Label to container applies individual domains
        * Limiting container access to ingress/egress network	
            * Just isle-apache
            * Going to map out ports so you can log directly into containers
        * dev.isle.localdomain, for example, will not have images.dev.isle.localdomain
            * Gavin: Another tactic: Multiple networks? Completely separate dev, stage network?
            * Ben: One network, each stack will have its own internal network (just like existing stack now); example: mysql container on frontend, dev, stage, prod doesn’t by default know which one it is looking for; proxy network is only for frontend ingress/egress, only thing with ports open to outside world
            * Gavin: Do we try to see if multiple people testing (facet of testing: those familiar with traefik, etc) to see if further information about these issues can be gathered
            * Carolyn: Do we consider these testing issues for institutions testing this release, or is that a must-have before this release?
            * Ben: There is a dev branch with a number of things that won’t cut this release
            * David: Also curious what is critical and what is for this release? If it’s not going to break it, let’s keep this release on target
            * Gavin: Remember, we went down this double images road because of a dealblocker issue with Adore-Djatoka, and also with multi-environments, this is why we went down this path
            * Ben: Want to get multienv up to DockerHub - images themselves remain the same in all environments
            * Gavin: As we are releasing things, those who are already using ISLE - will they still be able to use Djatoka or are there caveats? Can they migrate? What services work, what migrations are possible?
            * Ben: All services work, no caveats. ImageMagick issue is a bug (thanks Francesca and Mark for pointing it out), A-Dj and IIIF are both running on isle-imageservices; legacy users can use Adore-Djatoka if they want or just toggle to change to IIIF
            * Gavin: Thought Cantaloupe was having issues?
            * Ben: Dual imageservices image runs, but standalone imageservice is not working
        * David: Not quite sure whether multi-environment is baked in, broken, might still work but needs testing or development? Agrees with Gavin that this is a central tenet, depending where multi-env is at, -- our code needs an update and we have a lot of updates available, but if pushing updates will break multi-env we should discuss it
        * Gavin: Why would we push all the changes and then test them, versus testing everything and then releasing?
        * Carolyn: Agree with Gavin, is he asking about testing among the group or testing institutions?
        * Gavin: Is reflecting the group.
        * David: We don’t have a formalized way of communicating yes is working, no this isn’t - the goal is to release stable ISLE but it is effectively in beta mode (how do we publicize that?)
        * Gavin’s concerns: Ben has done a lot of work, he is transitioning back into a busy period, fear that we release and he gets an avalanche of issues on his radar; defining this criteria of tests in their contexts, people do a migration from non-ISLE, one or two who have migrated from old ISLE
        * Francesca: We have all been doing a lot of testing but maybe we haven’t been tracking it? 
        * Carolyn: Is Gavin referring to a streamlined testing among maintainer/interest group at present, or is he recommending we hold off on release until we have this testing from institutions?
        * Mark S. we’ve been using the term Release Candidate, that we’re announcing, as opposed to “this is just version 1.1”, - don’t think we have the right environments at our own institutions to test all the situations we want to test - so we are putting out the call for, This is what we need tested, these are the situations we need to test, and actively recruiting those who can test that -> Is this just a matter of semantics between Release Candidate and Release?
        * Gavin: Playing devil’s advocate, wanted to hear our thinking to make sure we are making a conscious decision to release in a manner that will invite an anticipated reaction from community, wants to make sure we aren’t in a situation where we aren’t prepared for clamors -> strongly recommends that recruitment (Mark put it in great words!) -> Mark’s words are criteria/punchlist for testing so we don’t have 6 people testing the same thing and who do have the right environments --- what could be a nice crowd-sourced plug? (gets into feature development) -> Take the release notes, take what Ben and Francesca are saying and merge prior to release, great to get traction
        * David recommends doc that clarifies areas that have been tested and those which have not - thought it was currently RC and calling it a release on the 31st. Is it going to the master branch once it’s pushed? 
* **Release: Next Steps**
    * Repo
        * Port ISLE-Dev repo to ISLE
    * Testing
        * ISLE Contributor Guidelines & Best Practices doc
        * ISLE Release Candidate (RC): How to Test (draft)
        * ISLE One Sheet (cheatsheet) (draft)
        * Ben to create named release branches
            * Mark to do same name for Docs?
    * Recruiting
        * [?] Fall Goal: 6 institutions using ISLE for production
        * This will need support. See “Communications” below.
        * Punchlist for testing 
            * Punch List for Tracking Testing
                * Gavin suggests move to GitHub issues queue
                * Gavin adds the topic of bugs to the topic of recruiting
                * David: Is this for this release or after?
                * Gavin: We can have tickets for testing and for bug
            * Open Call to Community
            * Sprint (testing Release Candidate)
        * Francesca: Language in accordance with Islandora releases
        * Gavin: Gather info with expectation that maintainers may not be able to fix issues right away 
        * Carolyn: (in line with release schedule)
            * Gavin recommends distinguishing difference between remediations and new features
        * Gavin: Also introduce concept of sprint
        * Outline for process over the next month or so
            * Release candidate 1.1 (Aug. 31, 2018) - make this master and make another branch for 1.0 and tag the related images
                * Call for testers? To test what? 
                    * Set up Issues queue with standard testing issues that will run across all releases
                * Remediation process post-testing? (Things that come out of testing that aren’t fixes become priorities for 1.2 RC?)
                * New feature development - wishlist plus anything that comes up in testing that we can’t get to in time for final release of 1.1
            * Release (what date?)
        * We need to set a good naming structure for branches to indicate HEAD v. stable releases 
            * Make an announcement that includes how to pull the branches for the previous release
        * There is an ISLE testing document - might need to take a closer look at it
        * We will start figuring out next steps and assigning people over Slack and then lets meet (or vice versa)
        * Gavin recommends we have a Sprint release manager - probably not Ben
            * This person needs authority!
        * Maybe reach out to Rosie to get tips etc. re. Release managers
            * FAL will do this
            * Also will put together rough draft of next steps/timeline
    * Communications
        * A visible ISLE discussion showcases project vibrancy and shows people that help is available. Public discussion builds the final stage with the Islandora community.
        * Everyone: Encourage all ISLE questions to be posted to: https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/islandora-isle
            * Example of how to redirect an emailed question about ISLE: “I can help you, but please ask this question openly in the public forums (islandora-isle or islandora) so we can help you there. If you have this question, probably others do too, and we’d like to have it where everyone can see it.”
        * Copy, whenever possible, islandora-isle (63 members) announcements to islandora (1029 members)
        * Who is actively monitoring islandora-isle or islandora for ISLE opportunities/questions?
            * Encourage institutions using ISLE to actively contribute/join  google group discussions/questions
    * Gavin: Recruitment language/process
        * Not everything in GH issues queue will be tested or fixed; create list of things we are going to tackle during that sprint
    * David: Are we tracking using GH issues, or using a master doc? Like Islandora Release testing framework
    * Gavin: Good idea to have release manager(s) to make decisions on what priorities are --- reiterates comments on Github issues before
    * Francesca: We need to work out how we are going to facilitate this process, we need to build a list of what we need
        * Series of emails for release
        * Building list of what this RC is working on
        * Emails from March, set schedule: What are the steps Islandora does? When do they send emails, what do those steps include?
    * David: That is very helpful to clarify the steps in this process, but should we put out a call for testing with this release, or next? If this release, would that seem backwards?
    * Carolyn: This goes back to our earlier question and what I asked Gavin
        * Gavin: This is what I’ve been saying
    * Mark: Thoughts had been to keep RC on ISLE-Dev, but agrees with Gavin that having that as the master branches re: previous discussion adds flexibility 
    * Gavin: Points out the importance of tagging legacy versions, and keeping them available for a while: (loosely, for example: isle-old-v1.0). Branching is the way that the group acknowledges that we are not leaving anyone stranded. 
    * Francesca: We have pretty good flexibility now in creating naming structures as ISLE is still getting going w/ not a lot of active users. Up and coming, and it’s great and important that we are getting our systems sorted out now before it gets more active usage. Advises that we use the Islandora branches and terminology (head and labeled branches)
    * Gavin: Having an area to work on that is experimental (bleeding edge) is important to have out there too, as a branch that is constantly moving.
    * Gavin: I think you’ve done it. Hat’s off. As an outsider, I think you’ve done it. Yea! Well done team!

* _4:00 pm EST Carolyn has to leave; meeting continues until 4:45 pm EST; notes added by Mark S. dispersed in agenda items_


### Next Meeting
Wednesday, September 12 3:00pm EST
