## July 18, 2018 ISLE Meeting

### 9:00am EST | Zoom: https://columbiauniversity.zoom.us/j/836960289

### Attending
* Gavin Morris 
* Mark Sanford 
* Benjamin Rosner
* David Kaiser-Clark 
* Mark McFate 
* Carolyn Moritz | _taking notes_

### Agenda

* **Follow-up from last meeting**
    * OracleJDK > OpenJDK
        * Gavin: believe there are dependencies for tomcat8 
        * OpenJDK for default-jdk and maven
        * Gavin: Significance of sequencing and testing
    * Oracle 8-9 Licensing Changes
        * Mark: Commercial restrictions for certain Oracle JDK features, seeing claims there are “no technical differences” between the two though Open would be most cut-and-dry for licensing purposes
        * Gavin: OracleJDK is used solely to power Adore-Djatoka and attempting to use OpenJDK with it fails; caution against ditching Oracle unless Adore-Djatoka is being removed from the stack
        * Gavin: Oracle is only here because ADJ is here; if there is a way of getting rid of both, that should be the goal!
        * Might inform our work on isle-imageresolver and how we prioritize introducing IIF/Cantaloupe
    * isle-proxy/Traefik
        * Gavin: Has the /adore-djatoka issue been fixed with Traefik, have multi-environments been tested? 
        * Ben: adore-dj resolution issues in pre-RC
        * Drupal osd config for adore-djatoka/resolver actually curl to grab test image; when proxy issues come into play, adj does not log this well to track/debug
        * “This is a rabbithole that may not be fixable.” (see above: prioritization of isle-imageresolver’s compatibility with IIIF or standalone image)
        * Gavin: support for multi-environments all managed by Traefik (isle-proxy); may need resources to extensively test; letsencrypt support is “workflow win”; still thinks nginx has advantage for load and traffic
    * Composer for Drupal package management
        * Gavin: ISLE always had Composer installed; what is the shift in its usage here - is Composer deployment its prominent role?
        * Clarity: is this a case of not finding Composer in ISLE or a paradigm shift with Drupal 8?
        * Mark M: Most problems have involved Composer/Drupal 7; found a way to make it work using custom themes and Drupal modules with some documentation support; has been a “backfit” into Drupal 7 and a focus for ISLE development -- problem addressed: reducing mix of drush and Composer
        * Gavin: In forward-thinking to CLAW, might benefit to try to start incorporating Drupal 8 workflows into Drupal 7 env (assess possibility/extent)
    * Gavin: post-handoff Concerns
        * Bionic: “tail of quirkiness” in new systems & length of time Docker took to update its Bionic image, context: stability - emphasize need for testing, adds end-users(was it end-users?) could update host servers
        * Php 7?: Recommends staying at 7.1 - ISLE dev-ops group/deployment guide has useful boundaries and guidelines
        * Gavin & Ben on same page re: envs and secrets; implementation challenge: “Docker way” to obscure info but initially treated as de-facto password bank -- ex. docker-compose.yml has sample MySQL root pw, introduces question for end users creating/migrating their own sites, are we demonstrating best practice? -- secrets introduces “crypt” that encrypts values and only decrypts upon run -- but, products out there are expensive per secret, HashiCorp Vault has free area, but complicated and possibly beyond ISLE scope -> do we introduce idea and have best practice guidelines? Recommends not entangling ISLE scope
        * Ben: not too familiar with Docker secrets but knows it is possible to save value as Docker secret at basic level
        * Gavin: currently when running ISLE client sites; when generating passwords, should be using shell script - could bake in Docker secrets and provide tool?
        * Inclusion of S6: Great move, more stable, can hook in additional tools
        * Fedora gsearch - breaking into own image could be tricky - Fedora’s messaging service responds to any change in Fedora, works on port that gsearch is listening to - “onslaught” of communication between the two
        * Logged GH issue on foxml, issue on ISLE-Documentation re: docker and iptables - open bug that currently is addressed via suggested fixes in Docker documentation; Gavin’s experience with others is that these fixes/firewall config has been complicated; would be good for us to update documentation to assist end-users
        * Would like to: To free Ben up to continue refactor focus -- do we have testing criteria? Willing to help test, would like to report in understandable manner
        * Ben: preRC testing currently very local to Ben; local builds often before pushing to DH; after that, call for volunteers
    * Project management documentation
        * ISLE Maintainers: Carolyn proposes to update to reflect recent Maintainer discussions; share for approval
        * ISLE Governance: Check it out if you haven’t already
        * Goal for both docs is to move past open comments phase and flag as final - falls to ISLE Maintainers (and David as I4A project lead) to bring to ICG
        * Both docs proposed to ICG as final by date: 
    * Action Items:
        * Formalize testing criteria and distribution
        * Revisit pre- and post-RC feature priorities
        * Gavin, Carolyn, Ben, Mark: can be asynchronous topic before next meeting?
        * Ben, Mark M, Carolyn - Composer, latter half of next week
        * Mark M - preliminary RC testing.
* **Refactor Update: Ben/Carolyn**
    * Refactor is at a PRE-RC.  Still reporting no surprises so far.
    * Simplified testing: grab docker-compose.yml and 
        * `docker-compose up -d` 
        * stop the containers `docker-compose down -v`.
    * @documentation: Need to reflect install notes
    * Repository status:
        * ICG Github repos are up-to-date. (links by image below.)
        * ICG Dockerhub is NOT YET TOUCHED. Suggest no pushing to ICG DH until green lights.
        * benjaminrosner Dockerhub is current home to pre-RC (NB: no longer br2490)
        * @ignore: benjaminrosner/ isle-mysql (untouched) and isle-proxy (unnecessary at present), please!
    * Overall TODOs:
        * Clean up labels and use appropriate schema.
        * http://docker-sync.io/ @ Docker-sync.
* **Docker Image Updates**
    * "isle-apache" has been refactored to Ubuntu Bionic (18.04) successfully.
        * @see: https://github.com/Islandora-Collaboration-Group/isle-apache
        * Image Size: 1.7 GB (original 2.1 GB)
        * @about:
            * Support for limited ENV_VARS to enable things like XDEBUG and set the UID (owner ID) of the files. Please anticipate more as this image is fairly important. 
            * Apache2 httpd
        * PHP 5.6, still?
            * @ALL do we want to TRY and upgrade to PHP7.1 - per Gavin's handoff notes it looks like there should be no issue.
        * Gavin has been testing and will try to share notes with Ben
        * @todo:
            * S6 include exit script if Apache2 (httpd) fails. This should signal container failure.
            * Cleanup and remove adore-djatoka, we only need Kakadu libs and binaries for this image.
            * LOGGING! Yes, things are being logged appropriately but they truly need to be `ln -Fs` to stdout and stderror, or using S6.
            * Double check Drupal cron jobs
        * Gavin: deb.sury.org same package manager for 5.6 and 7.1 so should make update painless
    * "isle-proxy" is really just Traefik doing it's job well.
        * @see: docker-compose in https://github.com/Islandora-Collaboration-Group/ISLE-Development (there is NO image)
        * @about:
            * isle-proxy uses Traefik:latest, untouched at present.
            * Image Size: 52.5 MB
            * Achieved by using basic labels in the docker-compose at present, most will be baked into the images at release.
        * GREAT SUCCESS! Thank you Mark! 
        * @todo:
 *@BLOCKER*: issue with the image resolver at /adore-djatoka/resolver? (this is a dns-resolution error)
TOML and ACME (auto-gen of certs)
Bake in required labels so end-user configuration is a breeze (see @about above).
        * Carolyn: confirmation that traefik checkNewVersion will remain commented out postRC
        * Gavin: might be workflow/docs issue we can address as most software will automatically check for updates, being container-unaware
    * "isle-tomcat" as a base for ICG images requiring a Tomcat daemon.
        * @see: https://github.com/Islandora-Collaboration-Group/isle-tomcat
        * @about:
            * Tomcat 8.5 (Tomcat 8 is EOL. http://tomcat.apache.org/tomcat-80-eol.html)
            * Image Size: 1 GB.
        * @todo: 
            * Slimming and tidying. Target: sub 700MB. > Looking to do a full rebase.
            * S6 overlay needs to be added if this is multi-daemon.
        * *PRE-RC exists and works.*
    * "isle-solr" && "isle-fedora" working on new isle-tomcat base
        * @see https://github.com/Islandora-Collaboration-Group/isle-solr 
        * Image Size: 1.2 GB (original 783.5 MB)
        * @see https://github.com/Islandora-Collaboration-Group/isle-fedora
        * Image Size: 1.9 GB (original 2.2 GB)
        * Gavin: can assist with UI and localhost direct (isle-fedora)
    * Images Still Pending:
        * "Isle-imageservices"
        * @about:
            * hosts both adore-djatoka and Cantaloupe (IIIF server)
    * Action Items:
        * Gavin to share php7.1 testing notes with Ben
* **_Carolyn leaving; Documentation to be updated via Slack; ICG updates discussion continues in meeting to be completed asynchronously_**
* **Documentation**
    * Mark S. has discussed mkdocs with Gavin
    * Docker image README status
* **ICG Updates**
    * ISLE Interest Group
        * If ISLE becomes Islandora IG, updates need to be reported to Islandora Coordinating Committee (Current rep: Martha Tenney)
        * David’s suggestion: ISLE Maintainers provide updates as notes for ICC rep to report
        * Action Item: Outward Communication of current status Mark S and David, David will bring to steering to inform community of goings-on and how to 
    * DLF ISLE pre-conf workshop
        * Participant limit: Max 50
        * What do we think?
            * We’re thinking all 50, hoping that most will attend, but understand if not all 50 can make it.
            * @TODO Providing “homework” - David will see if there is a way to reach participants before the workshop to prepare their machines.
        * Testing has been simplified; simple installation documentation to be updated
            * docker-compose.yml and Barnard Migration Guide useful one-shot test installation examples
        * OR Fedora example: Pre-attendance requirements from participants
            * David to email DLF and ask about feasibility of this
        * List of features/requirements to make workshop installs run smoothly
            * Documentation needs
            * Technical needs (space)
            * Participant needs (git/docker pre-installed? etc)
        * For reference: Hack/Doc had appx 25-26 participants and roughly half as many installs
        
### Next Meeting
Wednesday, August 1 3:00pm EST
