## June 29, 2018 ISLE Meeting

### 3:00pm EST | Zoom: https://vassar.zoom.us/j/691813456 

### Attending
* Francesca Livermore
* Ben Rosner
* Mark Sandford | _taking notes_
* Mark McFate
* David Kaiser-Clark
* Carolyn Moritz

### Agenda

* **Refactor Update: Ben**
    * Refactor is going well, no real surprises so far
    * [Tomcat 8 is EOL](http://tomcat.apache.org/tomcat-80-eol.html). Welcome 8.5. 
    * New image: `isle-tomcat` as a base for ICG images requiring a Tomcat daemon. 
        * Rebased fedora and solr `FROM isle-tomcat` : https://github.com/Islandora-Collaboration-Group/isle-tomcat
        * Isle-tomcat is hefty at 1GB, we want that to come down: 
            * solution is to stop using Tomcat official image as it includes OpenJDK.  We can base off a smaller image and install the needed components. 
        * Oracle’s JDK > OpenJDK. Open is an attempt at porting Oracle’s Java
            * are there libraries that exist in Open that don’t in Oracle?
        * Oracle 8-9 licensing changes - understanding it is now acceptable to package Oracle’s JDK >= 8  in Docker Images
            * this needs verification, please
    * isle-solr/fedora working on new base.
        * [isle-solr](https://github.com/Islandora-Collaboration-Group/isle-solr)	
        * [isle-fedora](https://github.com/Islandora-Collaboration-Group/isle-fedora) 
        * ICG repos are up-to-date.
    * isle-apache is in progress, currently 75% - not current on ICG repo
        * [isle-apache:development](https://github.com/br2490/isle-apache/tree/development) 
    * S6 and multi-daemons, permissions, logging, all the things: @see https://github.com/just-containers/s6-overlay 
        * S6 helps manage the docker containers and make sure they are running properly, deals with container failure, etc
        * isle-tomcat needs this to be folded in, stay tuned for the rebase/update of Tomcat.
    * isle-proxy will be Traefik?
        * managed by labels built into the Docker-images themselves, Traefik makes routing easy. 
        * Replicas handling
        * Mark is going to share his experience with Traefik. 
    * https://github.com/Islandora-Collaboration-Group/ISLE-Development to build and test locally.  Please: git clone recursively.
    * Timeline: Mid-July
    * Refactor Action Items:
        * Carolyn, Mark S.: JDK double check:
        * Libraries in Open not in Oracle?
        * Verify: License okay to use Oracle JDK 8+ in Docker
* **Chat w/ Mark McFate**
    * [Traefik](https://traefik.io/) evaluation for use in isle-proxy 
        * Traefik > NGiNX;  TOML and certs;  LABELs (Dockerfile/compose) 	
    * Mark suggests [Portainer](https://portainer.io/) for inclusion in ISLE stack!
    * Suggests Composer for Drupal package management
        * Puts us in a better position for Drupal 8 as well
    * Mark’s current Docker projects
    * Composer deployments versus Drush deployment
        * This is a question regarding the existing scripts responsible for initializing Islandora in the container (install-site.sh).  There is an enhanced version
        * Composer wins over Drush
            * Performs incremental updates
* **Meta Updates/Discussion: Carolyn**
    * Google group for two-way communication between ISLE maintainers and community
        * Using isle-updates group
        * David to ask at Board meeting this Friday: islandora-isle okay?
        * Discussion point: Alternative names in case islandora-isle is no-go
        * Mark: Any name seems arbitrary if it doesn’t include “islandora”
        * Group will revisit this point if necessary via Slack
    * Maintainer meetings: Fixed, recurring, agenda focused on project work; open to public via bit.ly/isle-meeting and Zoom URL
        * Discussion point: ISLE SC and Project Maintainer meetings separate, but should have overlap. ?s:
            * One maintainer [to provide updates] at each ISLE SC meeting? 
            * Rotate, or would one person like to attend? 
            * Standing agenda item: Assign maintainer rep for next SC meeting at each Maintainer meeting?
            * Next ISLE SC meeting sometime in Aug-Sept 
            * For now: Rotate out, Carolyn to attend next, 
            * Mark S. intends to attend all SC meetings but thinks a code maintainer should attend
            * Francesca: Significance of ability to communicate development progress from all angles (practice needed on all maintainers’ behalf!)
                * Especially important for DLF in October
                * openproject.org/docker example excellent model
                * Visuals: Slides, printouts
                * Followup meeting: Virtual presentations/David, Ben, Carolyn
        * Output: Notes in ICG Github repo, [see example](https://github.com/islandora-interest-groups/Islandora-IR-Interest-Group) GH README: Maintainer names, meeting dates/times, bit.ly and Zoom URLs, contact info inc. maintainer GH accounts and Google group email. 
        * Discussion point: GH repo name? 
            * Is ISLE Interest Group problematic? 
            * ISLE Project Group? 
            * ISLE Meetings? ISLE Maintainers? 
        * Slack: #isle-maintainers active place for project work. Update other relevant ISLE channels to check #isle-maintainers if still interested.
    * Communication Action Items
        * David: Report back from Board meeting by Monday, July 2 in #isle-maintainers
        * Carolyn: Rename Google group (islandora-isle or maintainer-decided alternative name)
        * Carolyn: Create and set up ICG/isle_[name-pending] repo (may need David or Ben to grant permissions) - Monday, July 2
        * [Volunteer?]: Update post to #hack-doc channel and email to Google group - Monday, July 2: 
            * Check GH repo for meeting/notes info
            * Follow Google group for conversation
            * Refactor and release status (brief, but acknowledge)
        * Carolyn: weed Slack members - Monday, July 2
        * Carolyn, David, Ben, identify time (after July hiatus) to discuss virtual participation at DLF
* **Documentation**
    * Docker-infused project [README examples](https://www.openproject.org/docker/ )
    * Docker image READMEs
        * [tomcat example](https://hub.docker.com/_/tomcat/)
        * Example of a single image’s readme, explaining how to run just that container, perhaps if someone doesn’t want to use the full ISLE
        * Docker hub generates them automatically from github.  
    * Standing Agenda Item: Project management docs
        * Merging docs: Update Maintainers, Governance
        * Pull project management info out of deprecated - ISLE Code Next Steps and deprecate the rest 
            * No action item at present; keep as reference for future documentation needs
        * Governance: “Islandora for All” context
            * David as overall project manager of “balloon” ISLE and LASIR
        * Discussion point: Do Doc maintainers feel “meta” documentation (project management) is also in purview? Should we distribute this work?
        * @Mark S - need handoff w/ Gavin on using mkdocs - Done
        * Scope - motion to flag out of scope agenda items for other discussion outside of these meetings (see below: End-user documentation)
    * “Islandora Enterprise (ISLE)” Google Drive
        * Currently owned by CommonMedia
        * Discussion point: Future location for ISLE working docs? 
            * New directory?
            * Within ICG docs?
            * Naming convention: Clear way to differentiate one-off “working” from standing reference docs? (Currently: Listed as URLs at top of “ISLE Maintainers” doc)
            * David: Permissions inheritance: Public folder within ISLE folder, not other way around
    * Discussion point: What end-user documentation will look like.  Some of this is philosophical. Should this be discussed at the SC instead? 
        * How much detail/copy-paste?  
        * How many different host systems do we need detailed docs for? 
        * At what point do we point out to other docs (e.g Docker’s own docs, etc)
        * Brief one-page quick guide with links out to more info
        * _Discussion point noted as out-of-scope_
    * Documentation Action Items
        * Francesca updating Maintainers, David updating Governance
        * Carolyn to do second pass on Governance doc
        * Carolyn to ask Joanna about Governance doc

**_[IP/licensing questions: Discussion flagged as out of scope and moved to another conversation]_**

* **Recurring meeting date/time**
    * Wednesday 3:00pm EST good for everybody?
        * Yes but not for two hours!
        * Not next time; everyone’s going on vacation
        * Next meeting 9:00am, after that 3:00pmEST Wednesdays every two weeks
    * Frequency?
        * Every two weeks for now, maybe not in future
    * Include Derek & Noah in calendar invite

### Next Meeting
Wednesday, July 18 9:00am EST
