## December 05, 2018 ISLE Interest Group Meeting

### 3:00pm EDT | Zoom: https://columbiauniversity.zoom.us/j/836960289

### Attending
* David Keiser-Clark | taking notes
* Mark Sandford, Noah Smith, Francesca Livermore, David Keiser-Clark, Shaun Trujillo, Sarah Goldstein, Yamil Suarez


### Agenda

- Thoughts on moving in the direction of having settings files as example.filename to avoid merge conflicts for institutions after release?
  - Proposed architecture change: following [Drupal's convention](https://github.com/drupal/drupal/tree/8.6.x/sites/default) for not versioning active settings files, change docker-compose.yml in Git to be something like docker-compose.yml.sample and update [documentation](https://www.drupal.org/docs/7/install/step-3-create-settingsphp-and-the-files-directory) to include "Step 1: copy docker-compose.yml.sample to docker-compose.yml and modify to suit". Â This may necessitate modifying .gitignore to [not include](https://github.com/drupal/drupal/blob/8.6.x/example.gitignore) these files.
   - Noah: Important for default settings to not overwrite your actual settings file. BD has been using a clone of its repository to work around this issue. BD has created a PR on ISLE, which would add several more steps to get ISLE out of the box. BD is willing to push this up as a PR to ISLE. Needs Ben's input.

- FYI that BD has gone and turned off MySQL logging on ISLE 1.0-based systems, following the [new 1.1 update](https://github.com/Islandora-Collaboration-Group/isle-mysql/pull/2/commits/6cbbda801d4b79a2380434c9b321d0afd86a4208) (and dealing with log size issues during heavy ingest periods). If you have legacy systems, you should probably make this change there as well if you can't jump to 1.1 instead.
  - Noah: ISLE 1.1 (latest) fixes an issue with and ISLE 1.0: The mysql logs do seem to build up and can cause disk space failure until you clear logs and reboot.

- From ongoing BD ISLE 1.1 builds, the implications of having a mismatch of Unix islandora user (UUID / GUID) on host vs apache container(s) are worth fixing. BD added this to the P2 "optimize/cleanup" sprint, but it could warrant a fix sooner
  - E.g. on a big code base, "fix permissions" script takes a long time to run, and delays full system boot. Ideally this script should not be run on every reboot (shutdown) of containers to avoid lengthy site down-time i.e. 404 errors
  - Noah: BD is working around this, meaning they are letting the script just run every time, but BD would like to either issue a PR or work with Ben to fix this and guarantee that the Linux GUIDs are the same in all circumstances.\
    [Ben issued [this PR](https://github.com/Islandora-Collaboration-Group/ISLE/issues/171)]

Marcus reports that the ISLE 1.1 is smoother and is grateful for it, and has interest in others work with ISLE on AWS. Marcus interested in creating an AWS Cookbook outline, similar to Google Cloud Platform doc.

- Release announcements: Use Mailchimp ? (Great for analytics). Like the Islandora Foundation

- [ISLE Phase II](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1jMlzNGiez3cNLY3MoxE0IsaDukf11kni2AuBoPbCQu4/edit#heading=h.88g5x35jxn13):
  Project management updates
    - SC PM update: roles and responsibilities
       - See [ISLE Project Management](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Jx_fDtK5oUDiCe7rqI9J2B6nJ8cc7ZZKc1gm3b0egPY/edit#) doc
    - Show new [PM tool](https://commonmedia.teamworkpm.net/#/projects/380143/tasks/board) (task boards)
       - Add missing people

- First Sprint selection and kickoff?
  - Proposed: Blazegraph, starting Dec 12, running 5 weeks to delivery due to BD being closed the last week of the year. (approved)
  - TODO - Outstanding Question: When do we want to make this available? (mid year or end of ISLE Phase II project?)

- Discussion of best behavior for default log handling (without e.g. ELK stack)? <https://github.com/Islandora-Collaboration-Group/ISLE/issues/193>
  - If moving towards not persisting logs, what is the non-ELK solution / direction for those not wanting to use ELK?
  - How does this also facilitate the ELK use case?
  - TODO - BD needs a really good base case for how do logs work, and that allows BD to build out an enterprise log solution on top of that. Needs Ben's input here too.
  - This feature will add overhead (more RAM 4GB needed), so some will opt in, and others opt out of this feature

- BD will create a DoodlePoll and will include Shaun, Ben, Yamil, Marcus, and the ISLE SC.


### Next Meeting
* Wednesday, December 19 3:00pm EDT
* Zoom: https://columbiauniversity.zoom.us/j/836960289
