## September 26, 2018 ISLE Interest Group Meeting

### 3:00pm EDT | Zoom: https://columbiauniversity.zoom.us/j/836960289

### Attending
* Carolyn Moritz (Vassar College) | _taking notes_
* Marcus Barnes (University of Toronto Scarborough)
* David Keiser-Clark (Williams College)
* Heather Highfield (Hamilton College)
* Gavin Morris (Born Digital)
* Benjamin Rosner (Barnard College)
* Jessie Cai (San Jose State University)

### Agenda

* **Testing and feedback**
    * [ISLE 1.1 RC Testing Matrix](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1L-wrivXq2pUz7vcGsMCx3X7yKf27uokoaR8SovU_BsU/edit) (Jessie, Mark M, Gavin, David) needs additional testers
    * Ben will reach out to Jessie re: testing
    * Gavin will look at BC Migration Guide and get back to us
        * Ben: Less specific to Barnard as it should be applicable to anyone using a \*nix-based system. But won't have it finished this week - perhaps over the weekend for Monday
    * Has previously said will do Ansible scripting for Ubuntu, will also do so for CentOS, hopes to get back to us by this week
        * Ben will assign to Gavin
    * David: Process questions
        * Gavin, Mark S. - list of test items verbose, repetitive, going to take a hack at shortening that?
            * Gavin - Challenge - ICG created sample test spreadsheet, Gavin’s feedback to Mark is that there were contradictory elements
            * If you are not a power Islandora user, you may not know what you are testing
            * No true explanation of expected behavior/errors
            * Content models (Oral History) not in Islandora Core - of course test it, but not set up on ISLE as it is not in core - could cause confusion
            * Recommended to Mark - go back, look at it, figure out what in core you are trying to test - if others want to add on and test it, that documentation on how to go about setting that up should be written
            * Took Gavin hours to get through three, four, more of these - primarily having to ensure sample worked. Recommends using IMI, batch processing, to get content in quick so tester can document ingest and functions
            * Homogenizes situation with conflicts in test reporting - we all use the same sample data, translates well, there is context
            * All institutions handle MODS differently, which poses a challenge in transforms, schema
            * Slim down samples, pick one of each, make “dummy MODS” that are all the same, etc
            * Marcus - The need for fixtures with core content types, labs modules, Marcus wants to bring up to core Islandora Committers’ meetings because it is missing and will help core Islandora testing as well as ISLE testing - will be away for 2 weeks but wants to talk to David at DLF. Thinks it’s important, and sets procedural precedent 
            * Gavin - in the context of Oral Histories - hearing Marcus say there is a concept of two highways - core is fully supported, should work, but there is this haziness around what the community uses as though it is core in labs - can be solved in ISLE with the cookbook
            * Marcus - core functionality for ISLE testing, say basic image - a minimal MODS could be provided so everyone is testing core functionality so everyone is testing the same thing -- sample objects/metadata for Islandora
            * Gavin - sounds like Islandora Foundation should think about having a verified/approved mechanism for samples repos etc  if appropriate in addition to Labs?
            * Gavin: Some resources many in the community (including ISLE) use are created by DGI - Born Digital has clients who make schema changes, may or may not use certain transforms, create specific profiles - would it make sense for ISLE/ICG to fork DGI-dependent resources? Not knowing the impact of the direction they are taking but still loving their hard work and grateful that they share it 
            * Ben is subscribed to DGI’s Solr, etc and sees PRs without info, docs, has concerns not knowing about changes - so agrees with Gavin - should we check to make sure it is GPL?
            * Gavin does not know the process and is going to leave it to the group.
            * Would say the same thing about Common Media, etc
            * David - would be worth running through the Board, as this has been an issue pre-ISLE that has been bouncing around for several years
            * Marcus - It’s part of core but not part of IF’s repos?
                * [Basic solr config](https://github.com/discoverygarden/basic-solr-config)
                * [Islandora transforms](https://github.com/discoverygarden/islandora_transforms)
                * [fedoragsearch (version 2.9)](https://github.com/discoverygarden/gsearch)
                * [DGI extensions](https://github.com/discoverygarden/dgi_gsearch_extensions)
            * Example of something for cookbook - custom transforms, etc
            * Marcus will ask around to see whether it’s a reasonable ask, get others’ take
            * Ben - happy to get this info to Marcus
        * David’s other question - We have a bunch of testers and still have some use cases not being tested. How is that in terms of testing/documentation?
            * Gavin has Ubuntu - David: Ubuntu Update is unclaimed - Ben: Docker is Docker regardless of \*nix platform; gets a little different with Windows, Mac
            * Upgrade path - that documentation may not be solid enough yet 
* **Barnard Migration and Migration Doc**
    * https://bc.benjaminrosner.com/
    * https://github.com/br2490/ISLE-MG/blob/master/README.md (WIP)
    * Not up and running yet, BC using older modules
    * Photo collections using IIIF
    * Just updated to 7.x-1.11, now paged content fails
        * Gavin - doesn’t Paged Content use Djatoka? Maybe IIIF identifier field is not exposed
        * Ben - it was, has downgraded back to 1.10 to troubleshoot
        * Dependencies - is it in PC, bookviewer?
        * Gavin: Diego’s dev branch fixes everything with IAB
        * Gavin’s guess, Large image, books, paged content are all impacted by Djatoka’s absence/need more Cantaloupe info - Gavin is seeing this in other non-ISLE work
    * How does this fit with Cookbook?
        * Marcus - thinks this is appropriate although longer, because the migration guide is talking about a specific case
        * This maps it out so others can do project planning, testing, risk reduction -- this is a good and important first example
        * You could have more specific examples too, but this is a good example of an institutional use case you don’t want in the official docs
        * Gavin: Has been doing very small amounts of testing, beginning to take on more migration elements -- have been testing different components - documentation was set up in three columns: test, new site, migration -- should be careful not to get into mini-cookbook
        * Example: Here are the basic tenet of ISLE; also, here are tools to do something in a certain way, or a specific process
        * Gavin: Let’s add things to the cookbook now and an editor will come by and fix it
        * Concern - multiple instances of documentation and confusion as to which to follow
        * New ISLE is saving a lot of time - piece of caution: people asking for help on forum, but not all issues raised are making it into bug reports, makes it difficult to figure out where the info is -- points to challenge where nobody is in charge of ensuring bugs are documented
        * David: We developed that process and did not implement it; doc maintainers would rotate the role of watching to make sure anything issue-like is put into GH issues - haven’t done that yet!
        * Gavin recommends doc maintainers talk to him on his last bug report - example of what he’s referring to
* **Phase II: SOW - need to re/define features**
    * If funding is supplied to go forward with ISLE Phase II - injection of work from BD very quickly over period of time, so we need to figure out how to continue to iterate releases and navigate Phase II
    * We need to work on (esp. Tech Lead) the Phase II SOW, redefine features (some of them Ben has done), others will morph a bit as our track may have changed
    * Working on this with ISLE maintainers and Noah
    * Gavin - his take on this is that Ben and Gavin have ideas as the people who have been creating things, and would then share that with the community
* **Follow-up from last meeting**
    * Cookbooks are planned (coming soon)
    * FYI - Learn@DLF ISLE workshop: see blog post. More registrants, please!
        * If anybody here is going to DLF pre-conference, consider signing up for the ISLE workshop, or tell other people you know!
        * Carolyn - should we promote that on the google group? David will check in with Derek on releasing that
    * Gavin - Ben’s request on ISLE v.1.0 to v.1.1 updates - will get back to Ben and add it to his roster of things to test

### Next Meeting
* Wednesday, October 10 3:00pm EDT
* Zoom: https://columbiauniversity.zoom.us/j/836960289
