## August 15, 2018 ISLE Meeting

### 3:00pm EST | Zoom: https://columbiauniversity.zoom.us/j/836960289

### Attending
* Mark McFate (Grinnell College) 
* Carolyn Moritz (Vassar College) | _taking notes_
* Francesca Livermore (Wesleyan University)
* David Keiser-Clark (Williams College) 
* Ben Rosner (Barnard College)
* Derek Merleaux + Gavin Morris (Common Media)
* Mark Sandford (Colgate University) 

### Agenda

* **Follow-up from last meeting**
    * [ISLE Interest Group](https://github.com/islandora-interest-groups/Islandora-ISLE-Interest-Group) (Carolyn)
    * [Islandora Newsletter](https://mailchi.mp/eaf9b3ec3c51/islandora-newsletter-august-1794877?e=35c962d554) (David/Mark S.)
        * ICG is keeping an internal notes doc for adding new updates to next Islandora Newsletter
        * Open to ICG, keep track of updates we’d like to share with Islandora community
        * Melissa is hoping to get the Newsletter going monthly
        * ICG report to Newsletter will include update on ISLE IG
* **Refactor Update**
    * More great things than not-so-great things have happened
    * isle-imageservices
        * Present: IIIF default, adore-djatoka resolving with RewriteRule (in isle-apache)
            * Right now running concurrently
        * TODO:  Deprecate Adore-Djatoka; METRO reports running IIIF in production for a year (verified cache is being used re:Diego’s warning)
            * Decision made in #isle-maintainers
        * 1.6GB, “way too big”
            * Running Cantaloupe (IIIF) as standalone will result in up to 1GB image
        * Current rewrite works for adj on both http and https (iiif is fine with this)
        * Can flip between IIIF/Adore-Djatoka in Openseadragon viewer options islandora/islandora_viewers/openseadragon
        * DEFAULT is now IIIF in the build tools.
    * isle-apache
        * /isle_drupal_build_tools moved to separate repo in ICG GitHub and built into apache root directory via Dockerfile; now install script can be updated without needing to rebuild isle-apache every time
            * Achieves: Automatically update build tools independent of images
            * Allows individual institution to use own installation/build tools if desired
            * Hope: using env vars, point to specific branch on GH
            * David: if they pull images from their own repo, does that mean that institutions would be responsible for maintaining their own images?
                * No; images themselves are part of infrastructure, build tools as separate repo from isle-apache image allows for changes without any change to the image itself
                * Can alter drush makefile to custom add modules desired and leave out those unwanted 
            * Carolyn: If we are going to emphasize custom module setup, should provide official Islandora docs as direction esp. for new Islandora users
            * Gavin: Breaking out build tools is in line with Ben is breaking up Docker images into individual repos, but makefile is something Gavin made so we want to make sure individuals aren’t looking for a file that does not exist, recommends makefile “pick it apart” against current Islandora releases -- “best approximation of a standard”
            * “This is a very subjective thing here, there is no ‘right’ way”, can compare with islandora Vagrant, etc
            * If not consensus on certain modules, use different branches
        * TODO: update islandora install script (add release branches)
        * TODO (after beta release): Fully “Composer-ize” install
            * Thinking in line with Islandora CLAW efforts
            * Derek/Gavin: +1+1 Composer
        * Ben demonstrating use of environment variables:
            * https://github.com/Islandora-Collaboration-Group/isle-apache/blob/master/Dockerfile#L28
            * https://github.com/Islandora-Collaboration-Group/isle-apache/blob/master/rootfs/etc/services.d/apache/run 
            * https://github.com/Islandora-Collaboration-Group/ISLE-Development/blob/development/.env
            * Gives users ability specify own info, push into config files without needing to rebuild images themselves
            * Gavin: This may be the best we can provide, as each institution will want to manage passwords/secrets/tokens, does not recommend we get into that area -> the pass security tech itself is still nascent. Ex: HashiCorp Vault “secrets manager” obscures pass w/ encryption, w/overhead of another server, another infrastructure
            * Ben: There are much more complex ways to manage secrets; example, webserver’s cert and keyfiles should be encrypted, that’s not a route we’re going down
* **Port-Ability and Composer (Mark M.)**
    * See https://github.com/SummittDweller/Port-Ability
    * All of Mark’s non-ISLE, non-Python “stacks” employ Composer for spin-up and maintenance of Drupal parts (modules and themes).
    * A _master/.master.env is required, but not supplied in the GitHub repo.  An outdated “sample” file is included, but it needs work.
    * Mark would like to replace “secret” parts of .master.env with ability to pull from Docker Secrets or a similar mechanism.
    * Runs not just ISLE, but is responsible for appx 20 stacks and is trying to Dockerize all of them (one server running 14 stacks! Drupal 6,7,8, python apps, etc)
    * Config still very .env file based - python script reads config file, determines what environment (dev/stage/prod), specify target stacks to spin up, stop, backup; reads config data from single file regardless of stack, passes relevant data as RO .env file to host down to Docker file structure ---> docker-compose up -d
    * .env file automatically removed (unless in dev), secrets protected
    * Gavin: Have you tested a process where you turn off containers, delete containers, restart containers, and update images? Does it persist?
       * Mark: Yes!
       * “Comes up and down just fine”, has not done thorough security check to see what’s happening while .env is out in system
       * Gavin: .env file has become de facto config, if used as main file, can add pgp or some encryption tool to encrypt file and only open for duration of launch -> create workflow where no amount of secrets/passwords ever hits server unencrypted or for longer than relevant process
    * Ended up with 44(?) permutations of .env files, came up with master.env process w/ hostnames of all servers, key/values for targets, list of target stacks and their states
       * Gavin: Ever used Ansible in this kind of setup? This is basically a really interesting Ansible setup
       * Mark: Informed from work w/ Ansible
       * Gavin: Might be a thought for future ISLE work to think of Ansible, can use host vars to declare differences
       * Carolyn: Pretty sure CLAW playbook uses Ansible so, again, good "moving forward" direction
       * Gavin: re CLAW I have a concern re how they use Ansible
    * Example: ISLE stack has post-restart-script variable that Port-Ability looks for to run install script
    * Added -i ISLE tag to avoid Port-Ability’s traefik/portainer conflict
    * Dropped into Port-Ability .env everything that came from ISLE .env files
    * Thought about adding: ability to take sensitive pieces of .env and point to more secure mechanism
       * Gavin: Ansible has its own Vault, can use to do deploys, might want to integrate considering Mark’s workflow (Mark has thought about it)
       * Vault encrypts file for use during deploy, keeps off server but in encrypted memory
       * Mark: Considered briefly but decided to move on as he is out of the Ansible world, wondering, is that a place where you put a Docker secret? Since we know we’re in a Docker environment
       * Gavin: This would be another ISLE v2 topic, along with CLAW’s use of Ansible
    * Tags to engage XDEBUG, all stacks are Composer-based, no drush -> thinks we ought to latch onto with ISLE
* **ISLE-Documentation**
    * Schedule for publishing ISLE-Documentation to github.io w/ mkdocs (weekly?)
       * Right now we are working in ISLE-Documentation to document work done on ISLE-Development.  Is there a need to maintain the Hack/Doc version on github.io until Development is merged with vanilla ISLE?
       * Are we concerned about testers going to ISLE repo and seeing docs for ISLE-Development?  Should we use a separate repo for Dev docs, to be pushed out at the same time as ISLE-Dev?
    * David created a stub in the Documentation for “Updating ISLE” (see [issue #43](https://github.com/Islandora-Collaboration-Group/ISLE-Documentation/issues/43))
       * Question about how to document “Updating ISLE”: What is the best practice for minimizing downtime while: pulling down new images, stopping pre-existing containers, starting new containers, and then trashing the old containers?
    * Draft: [ISLE: How to Test Release Candidate (RC)](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1VUiI_bXo6SLqqUjmInVjBg3-cs40Vj7I_92txjFUoQg/edit#heading=h.tj2ze62gfdtj)
       * Question: When is an RC moved to become a stable release?
    * Gavin question for Ben: Working out multi-environment documentation?
       * Yes, quick-start guide being worked on by David & Carolyn
    * Gavin: Is Newsletter means of recruiting testers? How does one sign up for that?
       * David: Newsletter is one means, Google group could be another means (along with main islandora Google group). Doesn’t want to go too test-heavy on Newsletters as most newcomers’ first ISLE experience should be stable
       * Gavin: “put my name on a list somewhere!”
       * Carolyn: Currently planning on recruiting testing as of Aug 31 release date; do we want to discuss ISLE-Dev “bleeding edge” testing before then?
       * David: Do we have a mechanism for positive feedback?
       * Carolyn: Let’s discuss testing framework as standalone meeting
       * Mark S. points out next meeting is 29th, let’s do this sooner
    * Mark S.: Docs that are parallel w/ ISLE-Dev and stable ISLE, if we’re still pointing people towards ISLE we need documentation that’s consistent
    * Francesca: Is Aug 31 when we move to having everything on one repo? and, can we (Fran,Mark S.) have a documentation meeting?
    * If it’s such a short time until repos are migrated to primary ISLE, is it worth the extra documentation work?
    * Mark S.: github.io has not been updated yet, compromise for next 3 weeks will be, ISLE from hack/dock at .io, testing info at ISLE-Dev repo
       * Gavin: .io pages were always disposable; it’s important work matches documentation, don’t “nuke all the things” but merge in new info, as this is the “full project DNA” and will allow for a rollback if necessary - but, .io pages are totally disposable, whatever we decide they should be -- can make .io whatever we want relevant to current project as long as mkdocs remain in git
    * Fran: Will long-term documentation remain in ISLE-Documentation repo?
    * Ben would like to join ISLE-Docs meeting
    * Fran: Would like to cover our workflow! Might be full-group agenda item  

### Next Meeting
Wednesday, August 29 3:00pm EST
