## November 07, 2018 ISLE Interest Group Meeting

### 3:00pm EDT | Zoom: https://columbiauniversity.zoom.us/j/836960289

### Attending
-   Mark Sandford (Colgate) | taking notes
-   Marcus Barnes (UTSC), Francesca Livermore (Wesleyan), Benjamin Rosner (Barnard College), David Keiser-Clark (Williams), Noah Smith (Born-Digital)

### Agenda

Follow-up from last meetings: 
- From 2018-10-10 meeting: any remaining issues that have not been resolved or new issues to report?
    - Nothing reported
    
- Quick issue recap (most blockers resolved):
  - [Islandora UID] (https://github.com/Islandora-Collaboration-Group/ISLE/issues/187) - a little longer for this one! BR + GM
    - Question:  Do we want to suggest creating a user called `islandora`.  
    - BD: A problem for users migrating from ISLE 1.0, also AWS servers have default user set up on that UID.  Ben’s latest change on Apache image works--allows installer to specify UID.  
Need to re-examine, check on what the “Docker way” for handling this is.  It should only affect some known situations, not all installations.
  - [Solr Schema fixes: diacritics, version bump] (https://github.com/Islandora-Collaboration-Group/ISLE/issues/186) & (https://github.com/Islandora-Collaboration-Group/ISLE/issues/185)
    - Updated and latest image pushed to docker hub.  Will not necessarily update existing instances on an update, as that is a part of the data that is volumed and retained by end user.
    - BD working on an issue with Colgate’s migration from custom install to ISLE 1.1, but that is not an ISLE issue per se.
https://digitalcollections-staging.colgate.edu/browse-collections (link only live for the call)
  - [Fedora - local Saxon and FOP](https://github.com/Islandora-Collaboration-Group/ISLE/issues/190) 
     - New image, 1.dev. Local install of Saxon and FOP, so development of schema can be done.  Will not be included on stable release, as not a part of production.

- Progress on hitting release deadline?
  - BD testing
     - Colgate site looks good (Existing data store moving to 1.1)
     - Localdomain checks out
     - BD’s basic Islandora install/Demo site with their customizations and theme.  That checked out.
  - Community testing
  - What are the criteria to officially allow release?
     - Ready to call this 1.1 and release, pending documentation sprint to get docs up to date and fleshed out.

- ISLE Phase II: 
  - Mellon grant and dual press releases:
     - Live: Williams College Awarded Mellon Grant to Increase Access to Scholarship
     - Crafted by Williams to promote the work at Williams
   - Draft: Islandora Collaboration Group Awarded Mellon Grant to Increase Access to Scholarship with Islandora for All
      - David has permission to craft a press release that focuses on the ICG.  Will be much the same as the first, but will focus on broader membership.
    - SOW ISLE Phase II completed and signed.
       - Sets the governance parameters for how the work will get done.
       - David: Trick is to figure out how to fulfill the work Melon is expecting within the constraints of work done at cost per hour, but total grant is finite.  Trust and experience/prior relationship, to understand what is in scope to avoid increasing scope.  Need to be flexible on how hours are spent, need to not ask BD for too much.  
       - Noah: Also need to get all work done within timeline. A “promise” has been made to Mellon, SOW is meant to meet that promise.

- Any updates to share with Islandora Newsletter?
  - ICG press release of Mellon grant
  - ISLE v1.1 due for final release by or before Nov 24
  - Timeline for institutions to go to production?
     - Please enter in this doc: [ISLE Use Case Studies](https://docs.google.com/document/d/15VLKLIeghBGDbzsrEqupb_rtdJ09wU45DhxQLuGcdHA/edit#)

New Business:
- Discussing Migration Scripts (BR) - what can be done? Should there be several or just one?
   - #188: [Update .htaccess] (https://github.com/Islandora-Collaboration-Group/ISLE/issues/188) 
   - #189: Migration: [SQL for non-utf8m4 dbs] (https://github.com/Islandora-Collaboration-Group/ISLE/issues/189) 
  - Other things?  Ex: enabling Cantaloupe
     - Agreement on which to build can be done via Issues.
     - Gavin:  Suggestion- give default series of script, then possibly add outliers to cookbook as needed.  Bento box not burrito model.  
- Plan/schedule doc sprint to finalize existing outstanding issues
   - Mark S will produce a list of what is known pending.  Group can prioritize and volunteer. Daily check-ins perhaps?
   - ISLE Issues has a lot of doc issues, often labeled as such.  That’ll be a starting place.
- Migration paths?  
    - Noah: May be easier going forward for devs and users to issue PRs at the time of need or time of resolution.

### Next Meeting
* Wednesday, November 21 3:00pm EDT
* Zoom: https://columbiauniversity.zoom.us/j/836960289
