## October 10, 2018 ISLE Interest Group Meeting

### 3:00pm EDT | Zoom: [https://columbiauniversity.zoom.us/j/836960289](https://columbiauniversity.zoom.us/j/836960289) 

**Note Status:**

**Last week's notes on [Github](https://github.com/islandora-interest-groups/Islandora-ISLE-Interest-Group/blob/master/meetings/2018-09-26.md).**

### Attending 
* Francesca Livermore (Wesleyan)
* Sarah Goldstein (3C/Mount Holyoke)
* Noah Smith, Gavin Morris, Derek Merleaux (Born-digital)
* Benjamin Rosner (Barnard)
* David Keiser-Clark (Williams College)

* **Taking notes: Francesca**


### Agenda/Minutes

* **New Business**
  * Ben's General update:
    * There is a dev branch ([https://github.com/Islandora-Collaboration-Group/ISLE/tree/development](https://github.com/Islandora-Collaboration-Group/ISLE/tree/development))
    * Changes on the dev branch are feature editions/helper scripts - nothing that changes anything in the images - there are no regressions - stay with 1.1 for now
   * This is an update in the docker-compose that points to the dev images which includes no changes JUST minor updates
     * GM - will this become a .# release? Why are they in the dev branch and not in the 1.1 branch?
     * BR - wanted to give everyone a chance to look at these changes and review them. Maybe this dev branch should be merged into 1.1. Ben will prioritize this merge.
     * NS - it makes sense to test once, then have a period for bug fixes, then test the whole thing again. BD is not going to test multi-environment or migrations at the moment. Migration case has been tested in the 1.0 period. 
     * Gavin has time to do tests on ISLE. BD has been developing an ingest test suite and is willing to share.

* **NEW ISSUES or ISSUES QUEUE**
  * New SOLR issues filed for changes to SOLR image:
    * [https://github.com/Islandora-Collaboration-Group/ISLE/issues/186](https://github.com/Islandora-Collaboration-Group/ISLE/issues/186)
    * [https://github.com/Islandora-Collaboration-Group/ISLE/issues/185](https://github.com/Islandora-Collaboration-Group/ISLE/issues/185)

*   **Follow-up from last meeting**
    *   Mark S: Lots of good suggestions for testing.  The need for input from "power users" who have more knowledge about the system than I do
        *   Someone who understands MODS xml well to go through sample objects, make sure they are correct and consistent.
            *   Ask Bethany Seeger? - **David has asked via email on 10/12.**
            *   [https://github.com/marksandford/islandora-sample-objects](https://github.com/marksandford/islandora-sample-objects)
            *   This needs someone else to check 
        *   Someone who understands Islandora ingest processes well enough to answer questions about "If we are testing X, are we also testing Y at the same time" to reduce redundancy. Some of this work done by Francesca already but questions remain
            *   Last tab of this spreadsheet - [https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1L-wrivXq2pUz7vcGsMCx3X7yKf27uokoaR8SovU_BsU/edit#gid=2068613082](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1L-wrivXq2pUz7vcGsMCx3X7yKf27uokoaR8SovU_BsU/edit#gid=2068613082)
            *   The current state of these questions are very repetitive and that is because it was built from scratch and just includes a hodgepodge of questions.
            *   NM - suggests that for now folks just do the tests on object types and steps that you are comfortable with 
            *   You do need to test ingest for each content type. Key choices with viewers and data that is tricky/subjective and changes results.
            *   Maybe the best thing is for people to document what they test (their own workflow is what they know best and should test)
            *   After we've all got a good solid pass at testing -  we can identify what is a bug fix and what is a future upgrade, fix the bugs, defer upgrades, and release.
            *   Is there an end date for this round of release testing? So that we can then move forward, identify the "launch blockers" and make a burn down list and start moving towards a release.
                *   Could we set this as next Wed., 10/17? SEEMS LIKE YES
                *   What is it exactly? A release today that way we all have a common baseline with a goal of running through testing before next Wed.
                *   What happens next Wed.? Do we meet an extra time or does Ben then take a week to triage the bugs (launch blocker or not)? 
                    *   A smaller group will have a shorter meeting next Wednesday. BR will post about this in the Islandora ISLE Google groups.
                *   Tags in Github "launch blocker" or "not a launch blocker (or SOMETHING - HOW TO SAY THIS BETTER?)" might help identify and work through the more urgent issues more quickly.
                *   Wipe the column in the spreadsheet that you have been working on and start over with this latest round of testing.
            *   BR - If you have run into issues, PLEASE create github issues so that we can track them.

 *   Report back on any new developments from testing?
 *   Good question re: backup from Jessie C. (SJSU) on Islandora ISLE Group 
     *   Diego has answered this well on the Google Groups.
     *   GM - this is a documentation challenge - just a case of location really (whether it's bind mounts or docker volumes)
     *   DKC - We should document the full recovery process. Like a git repo that holds a full set of files with all of the customizations. Is this the model? GM - says yes it is and we should document a set of recommendations around this as a part of ISLE v.2
     *   How well do we (the Docers) feel that we know the documentation? Can we go through it all and actually check it together plus run questions past the coders?
     *   We could use Issues queues for this as well?
     *   MS has already opened some issues on the Documentation repo.
         *   [https://github.com/Islandora-Collaboration-Group/ISLE-Documentation/issues](https://github.com/Islandora-Collaboration-Group/ISLE-Documentation/issues) 
 *   Docker: to volume or to bind?
     *   Bind mounts points to a location on your physical volume that you could go into
     *   Volumes are essentially the same thing but abstracted???
     *   Any institution that has data will be using bind mounts - we think.
     *   Docker volumes - when would you actually use these?
     *   GM - fedora data is constantly growing. If Docker had its own way, it would keep all of that in a special way that would grow to the point that it would topple. Most of us store in many ways. A bind mount allows you to point Docker towards data that is stored wherever (not just in /var/lib). Docker volumes fail really if you persist data beyond 60GB. Which basically everyone with an Islandora instance already has.
     *   Could do a hybrid like use Docker Volumes for things that don't grow as quickly.  Many places already split their data (put SOLR on a faster drive).
     *   We might want to wait till we have more data (more instances running ISLE in production). 
  *   Development branches and helper scripts - [https://github.com/Islandora-Collaboration-Group/ISLE/issues/173](https://github.com/Islandora-Collaboration-Group/ISLE/issues/173) 
        *   Ben welcomes thoughts, suggestions, ideas on this - please post comments, edit directly and add to the list!
  *   Phase II Oversight: PI, PM, [ISLE Steering Committee](https://github.com/Islandora-Collaboration-Group/ISLE#isle-steering-committee) (restructured slightly), ISLE Maintainers (looking for 1-2 more Code Maintainers; Doc Maintainers also welcome to join)
        *   Now comprised of members who are Repo managers at their institution
        *   For now all of the maintainers are on the Steering Committee
  *   Code4Lib Workshop: [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1N6ZhHqa4xBtEGJzBl1EXOFBn1uBgMRy4WFzsjs9QxuI/edit#](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1N6ZhHqa4xBtEGJzBl1EXOFBn1uBgMRy4WFzsjs9QxuI/edit#) (MUST BE SUBMITTED TOMORROW, get your comments in now.)
        *   More concrete and discrete than last years which does put some pressure on us but also seems like a useful change to this workshop structure. 
        *   Comments directly in the doc is most useful
        *   DKC has listed 6 deliverables - is that too stretch?
 *   Coming soon (post DLF): ISLE-Cookbooks
        *   We will work with Marcus Barnes on this after DLF and after he circles back to ISLE in a few weeks.
	
### Next Meeting
* Wednesday, October 24 3:00pm EDT
* Zoom: https://columbiauniversity.zoom.us/j/836960289
* Agenda: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1QZH-JFfroIA8NUFJu2NDwbmKV6ygCY7SjW001g8FeOU/edit#
