## August 1, 2018 ISLE Meeting

### 3:00pm EST | Zoom: https://columbiauniversity.zoom.us/j/836960289

### Attending
* Mark McFate (Grinnell College) 
* Mark Sandford (Colgate University) | _taking notes_
* David Keiser-Clark (Williams College) 
* Marcus Barnes (UTSC) 
* Benjamin Rosner (Barnard) 
* Derek Merleaux + Gavin Morris (Born-Digital)

### Agenda

* **Welcome all**
    * Welcome to Marcus Barnes, who is listening in from UTSC.
* **Follow-up from last meeting**
    * RC priorities and release
        * Ben was supposed to lead this async before this meeting, maybe we can separate it out and talk about it now and breaking out some to-dos. 
    * Image Services image delayed for other parts of refactor
        * S6 updates, brings down container on failure of key service.
        * Cleanup and slimming. Still some improvement needed for clean up of docker files, like dev/lib files.
        * Important issue resolved, needs other tester to verify: https://github.com/Islandora-Collaboration-Group/ISLE/issues/152
    * Composer still being investigated
    * Outward communication update:
        * David will write updates for Islandora Newsletter, and will loop through ISLE Maintainers before sending.
* **Refactor Update**
    * Repository location is https://github.com/Islandora-Collaboration-Group, see [isle-tomcat](https://github.com/Islandora-Collaboration-Group/isle-tomcat), [isle-fedora](https://github.com/Islandora-Collaboration-Group/isle-fedora), [isle-solr](https://github.com/Islandora-Collaboration-Group/isle-solr), [isle-apache](https://github.com/Islandora-Collaboration-Group/isle-apache).
        * Docker files all based on Ubuntu 18.04
            * Docker was slow to support 18.04, need to test 18.04 as host by running Ansible scripts.  Ben has not touched the Ansible scripts.
        * Tomcat Base is around 780mb
        * Currently building to [Benjamin’s Dockerhub](https://hub.docker.com/u/benjaminrosner/) on push to avoid conflict
        * Please test, checkout: https://github.com/Islandora-Collaboration-Group/ISLE-Development  (clone, cd, docker-compose up -d) 
            * Ben pushing out to this repository after local testing.  Should have all images except mysql? (Hasn’t touched mysql yet)
        * Known issue is adore-djatoka not resolving, suggest/suspect: will need a proxy-pass in apache site conf.
    * ISLE-Apache and adore-djatoka
        * Ben may have wasted time here trying to get these to work without just decoupling them
        * Likely need a apache proxy-pass to handle the internal resolution of the image service
        * Is rebuilding imagemagick with JP2 support, and imagemagick php lib worth it? Ben has the steps and has done it, but doesn’t know if it’s necessary 
            * Imagemagick not involved in JP2 creation typically.  Kakadu usually handles jp2.
            * libopenjp2-7-dev libopenjp2-tools - Compile openjp and copy binary to image rather than compiling on install.  Derek can provide some code to assist.
        * Islandora Openseadragon using Cantaloupe currently.  Should we move away entirely from adore-djakota now?  Is it reasonable to do that now?  
    * ISLE-Image services is a quick image
        * `FROM benjaminrosner/isle-tomcat:preRC`
        * Re-use portion of isle-fedora’s Dockerfile to configure Adore-Djatoka and review https://github.com/Islandora-Collaboration-Group/ISLE/issues/111 for quick start to Cantaloupe (IIIF)
        * Cantaloupe can be run as war, but we’re using tomcat all over anyway.
    * ISLE MySQL was not touched, it is low hanging fruit
* **Priorities for RC - Overarching Questions**
    * Can an institution that has an existing Islandora site pull down the images and migrate?  Can an institution running ISLE pull down images and get it working?
        * All images except image-services are 90-95% there.  They work, but need to be cleaned/slimmed up.  Should image-services be priority?
        * Multi-site (stage, dev, prod containers on single server with traefik managing them)
        * Image-Services and `removeall` clutter from isle-Fedora
        * Testing needs to happen to verify the above questions are “yes”.
            * Create 1-page instruction and punch-list
            * Outreach to the 6 alphas for testing ISLE-Development 
                * Test: new site, updated site, migrated site
            * End goal of this RC will be considered a stable beta version (and an invitation to the community to determine and provide feedback if this meets production-grade standard) including updated documentation
        * Documentation needs to be updated to reflect current processes and tested as well.

### Next Meeting
Wednesday, August 15 3:00pm EST
